Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're going to use linear interpolation in order to
learn between a starting value and end value.
And we're going to say how much to go each time.
Now that will be done with the following code.
So we good at math code and learn.
So from now on I'm going to use the term learning between two values.
So we're going to start with the door shut.
We're going to end with the door open and the percentage distance we can go anywhere between zero and
a value of 1 1 being 100 percent.
And what we can do is just put some numbers in here.
So if we start at zero and end 10 and have a percentage of 10 percent or nought point one we need to
type it in or put it in as a float value.
What would that look like.
Well here's a table to show you roughly how it would go.
Now these numbers are rounded as well and you can see that we start with a value of 1.
And the door will actually slow down as the frames progressed.
So we're gonna be sticking our code well it's being updated every frame rather than in begin play.
And of course once we've got the door working exactly how we want we'll use a trigger to open it rather
than just opening when we press play.
Okay.
Hi there Sam from the future come here to edit Mike's video and make a little bit of a correction.
The technique that we're using here is not actually linear interpolation even though the function that
we're using is called Love and that's what it's all about.
But because we are passing in the current value and repeating what we're actually getting is a kind
of exponential interpolation there will be more information about how we can get proper linear interpolation
and how we could do this exponential interpolation even better.
Coming up at the end of the video.
In the meantime follow along with the instructions.
They will work.
So what else do we need to cover here.
Now we only have to change the your value of the door itself.
Not all three so we don't have to use an F rotates or as such to store all of those three values and
only change one.
We can just change the one we wants to do.
And if you'd like to read up a bit more on linear interpolation there's a link there and I'll put that
in the lecture resources as well.
So it's five on over into the US code and start looking at Ping okay.
Everybody welcome over into yes code.
The first thing I want to do is just correct something that I included last time and that is an equals
here.
This is just not necessary.
And we can remove four extra whitespace there.
The other thing that you can do is you don't need those curly braces you can also use parentheses there
like so.
But at this point in time we can use either the parentheses or the curly braces both will work and the
basic reason for this is initialization syntax in C++ is quite honestly a mess which I won't get into
at the moment.
However in general I'd recommend that you use your curly braces for containers where you want to initialize
the elements with lists of values.
Otherwise go ahead and use parentheses.
Now I'm going to comment out that code for the moment a move entire lot's of code some of it's kind
of duplicate code but we'll get back to that later on.
English will shove it down here more for reference more than anything else.
And that just means that we can come back to that later on and decide which way we want to go with it.
Now let's have a look at the head of file for the moment because what we really want to do is have a
target that would go into a target your.
Now we don't have any private areas here so let's go ahead and create ourselves a private area where
we can store this new member variable.
We're going to call it the target your it's going to be a float.
As we've talked about before I'm going to call it's my target your.
And yes I am going to initialize it here as well.
Otherwise I'm just going to have to add initialize it later on in my code.
And there's no point if it's already got a value that we can just use straight here and later on what
we'll be doing is being able to set our target your from within the editor which would be really useful.
Now also takes out any magic numbers that we've got for instance here.
That's really good.
OK.
So before I do anything else over in the implementation what I'd like you to do is go ahead and print
out the f transform or the yaw or if you want to give it to go both.
Now if you are printing out the yaw you need the format specified percentage f for foxtrot in order
to do that.
That's not one we've used before.
So if you think you've got the skills to do that and I know you have pause a video for a few moments
and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
So what do we want to do here.
Well we want to log out the f rotates.
Let's do that first.
Say you log and then I want the log temp as always.
And then what do we want here.
I want it coming out in yellow and not test text and I will do the F rotator for some kind of go format
specify s to begin with.
And when we get to the your will need the format specify F instead.
So here we're going to need a star because it's an F string and then we're going to need to get ona
parentheses the our operator gets acts a rotation which is just.
He says in the Misses hits.
Brilliant.
And then does this have a two string Operator Yes it does.
And of course we need parentheses on the back and I think we need one more.
Yes parentheses just that brilliant semicolon.
So that's how we will go ahead and do the first one the second one which was the your let's go a log
log temp again and again another yellow warning and then I'll text macro.
I just realized when typing it down how forgotten our comma just there.
Okay so this will be the your is in percentage f just there.
Okay so what are we going to need here we're going to need to once again get the owner that doesn't
need to be the star operator this time because it's not going to be placed into a string.
The arrow operator and then gets active rotation once again parentheses and the dot operator.
And finally the your.
Hopefully that is everything in there.
Brilliant.
If we save this now clear up this little piece of whitespace here.
Hey looking good.
Let's go head over into one real
and compile our code once that's compiled what we should do is open up our output log here and we should
see two sets of data coming through because we've got this door here and this other door here both of
them have the open door components on them which means when we go ahead and press play we'll get the
position or rather the rotation the efforts data for this and this just go ahead and hit play.
And there we go.
I'm just going to pause it.
So this log doesn't completely fill up so we can see here we've got four distinct values here we have
a your value of zero and your value of 90 referring to both doors and you could see that in the effort
data values as well.
Perfect.
So we are capable of locking things out which is going to be incredibly useful for testing purposes.
And of course reusing the code that we've learnt already.
Okay so let's go back over to the code.
So let's go ahead and we need to learn.
So we're going to do f math.
Colon colon and then early P C I've already been there before.
And we open up our parentheses and we can see here that there are five different function overloads.
Now you may consider them how you constructing things without terms reserved for classes.
But those are the five ways that we can put information into this function and I'll put my semicolon
on the end.
I'm just going to open up a comment here so we know we're looking for we're going to have a starting
your that's important.
And because we need to know where we're starting from we are going to need our targets.
Your wish is something we already have useful.
And then finally a value between 0 and 1 for the percentage increase open each time a value of one of
course would be very much like lines 38 and 39.
Well we just open the door instantaneously to our value.
Okay.
So before I go off and give you your challenge what I'd like to do is just run through how we're going
to use this.
So we we have a starting your and a target you're on the target you're was never going to change but
this starting your is going to update.
So we could really call it the current your instead.
So that's an idea.
And because this is being updated every frame games running if we're updating our current year then
we'll get closer and closer each time to the target your by this percentage and what that should end
up looking like is the door opens quickly to begin with and slows down towards the end.
Okay so that's a little clue as to what's coming up in your challenge okay.
So your challenge is to open the door and we're going to use alert to open the door.
We've got the code pretty much ready to go you.
There's gonna be a few extra things that you have to put in you will need to update the starting your
value every frame as well so you can set starting your equal to whatever the lump happens to be.
Now I do want to put this out here.
This code will only have an effect if your door has a your value that isn't 90 degrees if it's anything
else it will snap to 90 so it's close to 90 it will look like it's moving very little.
We will solve this in the next lecture.
Now this is something that you will come across time and time again during your coding when you start
using an absolute value when you really need a relative one.
And that's why we're going through the pain of having this particular issue so we can come up with a
decent solution and we'll solve that in the next lecture an extra credit if you know how to solve it
now.
So if you really want to push about and gave that a go then do it after you've managed to do this first
challenge an extra credit and then watch the next lecture in order to find out how we go ahead and do
that or how I go ahead and do that.
Okay.
Both of video now and give that a go.
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop on over interveners code and use the learned to open the door Okay everybody
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and start this door opening So we need somewhere for it to open from.
Okay so the current your or starting your whatever you want to call it we need to define that so we
can have a float.
I'm going to call it the currency or for the moment.
The current Your will be the starting your essentially at this particular point.
So that's fine.
What does that equal.
Well let's go ahead and get Oana and then gets the actors rotation fortunately we've used these before
to the top of the pile and then just the your value that should be absolutely fine.
So we have its current your value which at the moment is zero.
OK.
The next thing we will need is an F rotator.
That's the open door or something along those lines.
And then we will change the yours so let's go ahead and say change your value of open door or in this
case we know you'll probably be open door you.
Okay.
And that is where we're going to use this in order to change it all up.
And then finally I'm going to cut and paste or indeed I could just use Alton shift that's up.
This will be our final bits of code just here where we set the rotation to open door.
Let's get rid of this other stuff down at the bottom here.
Okay.
Now you could do this challenge by changing the full f rotator and not just the your value.
That's entirely fine if you've gone down that route.
So let's go ahead and define this effort to called open door and we need to give it some values.
So it's going to be 0.
Now you could here get away with doing it like this because we're using the parentheses.
That's that's a little hint it's what we can do with the parentheses.
They will be implicitly converted but I'm just going to put zero point F in here and be explicit that
they are floats.
The next thing we need to do is change the open door.
So if we change the open door dot your inset it's equal to this value here.
So we're going to have our current your that we've already defined you can probably just remove this
code here.
Yeah.
Excellent.
And this valley Hamdan assets not points to for the moment.
I don't know whether that's going to work as a semicolon missing there as well.
Okay.
In terms of the speed the lower this number the slower it should open so nought point two seems a great
start.
Okay that's looking good.
I'm just eyeballing for any silly things that I may have missed.
I think we're good let's go ahead and go over into real.
Same here again from the future.
It's actually worth noting here that when we're constructing this open door f rotates we're passing
in the target your bet on the next line we are subsequently overwriting that your entirely so you might
as well just be passing in 0 instead of the target your go ahead.
Compiler code K let's go ahead and press play Oh look about the door open it was rather quick though.
Let's stop that for the moment.
Go back to our code and here where we've got nought point two.
Let's change that's no point nought two for the moment save our code compile press play.
There we go that opens so much better.
Now you can see here in the numbers themselves that it starts very quickly and then slows down.
I don't think it's ever going to reach 90.
It may do.
It's getting closer and closer.
Now here we go.
We've got some rounding errors here where it never ever gets to 90 but that's expected and it's not
a particular issue okay.
That's awesome and of course this other door here does nothing because it was already at 90 so the target
you're starting your were the same so it had nowhere to go.
Of course we all need to change that soon.
In an upcoming lecture because at the moment it's no good.
We can't have all of our doors facing the same way in our level and we'll talk about that more in the
next lecture.
See you soon so promised here's Sam again with a bit of an explanation about the difference between
linear interpolation and exponential interpolation.
So in linear interpolation what we've got is let's say this over here is our position and this over
here is the time at which we are at a particular position or rotation as the case may be with our door.
And we have to start off and say that so the initial position for our rotation is 10 and that is when
we are at a particular time.
0 for example.
So this is 10 0.
But our target is that within 30 seconds maybe if that's the amount of time and let's just make sure
that we know that the time here is in seconds then we are saying that in 30 seconds potentially we want
add or to be at a different position maybe it's going to be at rotation of 0 by the end of this time
and that's where we want to end up.
Now in linear interpolation we get there at a constant and fixed velocity.
So our line goes straight from one to the other.
There's no slowing down as you get there.
So you come to a sudden stop when you hit that 30.
However this isn't really what's happening.
And we've seen this in the log messages.
So what we're really getting is something that approaches but never quite fully reaches our goal it
just plateaus out there at the end and this gives a nice kind of easing effect towards the end which
is much more visually pleasant than the linear interpolation.
But one problem with this is it's completely not a frame rate independent.
So your door will close much faster if you have a faster computer that can run at more frames per second
vs. a slow one.
So how do we get the desired behavior.
Well first of all how could we get a real linear interpolation we could use the math f love function.
However we would have to pass instead of the current year we'd have to keep hold of the yaw which we
started with go to the target yaw and then be able to interpolate this binary between 0 and 1 is what
Alpha is supposed to go between 0 and 1.
And you need to do that over the time period that you actually wanted.
So it can be a bit complicated to do it this way fortunately unreal has our back and has a better function
for doing this which is called F in TERP constant 2.
Now you'll notice that this if you just straight up replace it will give you an error because it expects
four arguments the first one being the current value great with set that second one being the target
call we've got that too.
The third one is delta time.
We'll get back to that and the fourth one is the interpolation speed which we also can set.
So Delta time is what is given into this tick component.
And that's basically telling us how long it takes for unreal to calculate a particular frame and that
allows us to have frame rate independent logic in our function here.
So what we're going to do is we're just gonna pass in that delta time fairly straightforwardly and then
we got to put in an internet speed.
Now if you went with the same speed as we had then it would be crazy crazy slow.
Well we actually want.
This is going to be the speed at which it closes.
So if I wanted to close in two seconds go from zero to 90 in two seconds then I want a speed of about
45 which is 45 degrees per second and let's go ahead and try that out and you'll see that as that opens
it doesn't slow down at all as it gets to fully open so there's no easing there whatsoever that is what
linear interpolation should look like.
What if we don't want linear interpolation.
But once something a bit more smooth well there's an alternative to F in TERP constant too as you might
have imagined called F interpret too simply that.
Now here the speed needs to be a little bit lower otherwise it's going to close incredibly quickly and
I think around two is good enough for that but we still need the delta time which shows us that its
frame rate independent so let's try that out and sure enough if I hit play now you can see that it opens
up relatively quickly but it eases at that last bit which looks just a little bit better.
OK.
Well Mike is going to be carrying on with the code that was in this video.
But if you want to use either of those two options you should be fine to take them through the rest
of the section.